What’s new in Python 3.14

Editors:

    Adam Turner and Hugo van Kemenade

This article explains the new features in Python 3.14, compared to 3.13. Python 3.14 was released on 7 October 2025. For full details, see the changelog.

See also

PEP 745 – Python 3.14 release schedule
Summary – Release highlights

Python 3.14 is the latest stable release of the Python programming language, with a mix of changes to the language, the implementation, and the standard library. The biggest changes include template string literals, deferred evaluation of annotations, and support for subinterpreters in the standard library.

The library changes include significantly improved capabilities for introspection in asyncio, support for Zstandard via a new compression.zstd module, syntax highlighting in the REPL, as well as the usual deprecations and removals, and improvements in user-friendliness and correctness.

This article doesn’t attempt to provide a complete specification of all new features, but instead gives a convenient overview. For full details refer to the documentation, such as the Library Reference and Language Reference. To understand the complete implementation and design rationale for a change, refer to the PEP for a particular new feature; but note that PEPs usually are not kept up-to-date once a feature has been fully implemented. See Porting to Python 3.14 for guidance on upgrading from earlier versions of Python.

Interpreter improvements:

    PEP 649 and PEP 749: Deferred evaluation of annotations

    PEP 734: Multiple interpreters in the standard library

    PEP 750: Template strings

    PEP 758: Allow except and except* expressions without brackets

    PEP 765: Control flow in finally blocks

    PEP 768: Safe external debugger interface for CPython

    A new type of interpreter

    Free-threaded mode improvements

    Improved error messages

    Incremental garbage collection

Significant improvements in the standard library:

    PEP 784: Zstandard support in the standard library

    Asyncio introspection capabilities

    Concurrent safe warnings control

    Syntax highlighting in the default interactive shell, and color output in several standard library CLIs

C API improvements:

    PEP 741: Python configuration C API

Platform support:

    PEP 776: Emscripten is now an officially supported platform, at tier 3.

Release changes:

    PEP 779: Free-threaded Python is officially supported

    PEP 761: PGP signatures have been discontinued for official releases

    Windows and macOS binary releases now support the experimental just-in-time compiler

    Binary releases for Android are now provided

New features
PEP 649 & PEP 749: Deferred evaluation of annotations¶